[blog] single music blog contrib (#22801)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2020-08-04-leaving-the-swarm-road-to-kubernetes.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Leaving the Swarm: The Road to Kubernetes"
date: 2020-08-04
slug: leaving-the-swarm-road-to-kubernetes

> url: /blog/2020/08/leaving-the-swarm-road-to-kubernetes

Reviewer: You can probably omit this line, and leaving it out makes it less likely that a localizer will copy the value verbatim by accident (which has a 50:50 chance of replacing your English article with the problem localization).

---

**Author:** [Kevin Crawley](https://twitter.com/notsureifkevin), Containous

---

> A story of how a small Nashville-based startup grew from two engineers, a server in a garage, to over one thousand customers and dozens of services running on Kubernetes in Amazon EKS.

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [The Beginning](#the-beginning)
- [Goodbye Swarm](#goodbye-swarm)
  - [The Trepid Todos](#the-trepid-todos)
  - [Setting the Goals](#setting-the-goals)
  - [The Experiment](#the-experiment)
- [Hello Kubernetes](#hello-kubernetes)
  - [Step 1: Developers Go First](#step-1-developers-go-first)
    - [Developers. Developers. Developers.](#developers-developers-developers)
    - [What is cmdr?](#what-is-cmdr)
  - [Step 2: The Migration](#step-2-the-migration)
    - [Migrating Traefik (Ingress)](#migrating-traefik-ingress)
    - [Migrating Infrastructure](#migrating-infrastructure)

>     - [Ready ... Set ... Oops ...](#ready-set-oops)

Reviewer: If you change this elsewhere, adjust it to:
```
     - [Ready … Set … Oops …](#ready-set-oops)
```

<p align="center">
  <a href="/images/blog/2020-08-04-leaving-the-swarm-road-to-kubernetes/single-service-map.png" target="_blank"><img height="300" src="/images/blog/2020-08-04-leaving-the-swarm-road-to-kubernetes/single-service-map.png"><i><b>distributed service map - single music</i></b></a>
</p>

A short introduction about myself, I’m Kevin Crawley, Developer Advocate for [Containous](https://containo.us) - the company that created Traefik and Maesh. My goal, at both Containous and Single, is to educate and enable the technologists involved in the development of their products with modern DevOps tools and practices. Join me on our journey, and learn how the entire cloud-native ecosystem, including [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) and [Traefik](https://containo.us/traefik/), has enabled Single to empower musicians like Travis Scott, Harry Styles, Lil Peep and TOOL to reach millions of their fans with their music and artwork.

## The Beginning

> In 2016, Single was still a monolithic prototype, an idea that was being formed by lifelong friends Tommy and Taylor. The concept behind Single was aimed at empowering artists to sell their own music online, having their sales recognized by major reporting systems such as [Nielsen Soundscan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MRC_Data), and their revenue being delivered directly to their pockets. I had previously worked with Taylor on a massive project to “Digitally Transform” a mortgage company by implementing what is still referred to as [12 Factor Apps](https://12factor.net/), this was before “[Cloud Native](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/cloud-native/definition)” became the de facto buzzword around modern application design principles.

Reviewer: I'd use the CNCF definition of Cloud Native:
```suggestion
In 2016, Single was still a monolithic prototype, an idea that was being formed by lifelong friends Tommy and Taylor. The concept behind Single was aimed at empowering artists to sell their own music online, having their sales recognized by major reporting systems such as [Nielsen Soundscan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MRC_Data), and their revenue being delivered directly to their pockets. I had previously worked with Taylor on a massive project to “Digitally Transform” a mortgage company by implementing what is still referred to as [12 Factor Apps](https://12factor.net/), this was before “[Cloud Native](https://github.com/cncf/toc/blob/master/DEFINITION.md#readme)” became the de facto buzzword around modern application design principles.
```

2) The local development environment **MUST** be served using a platform capable of using exactly the same manifest, tools, along with compatible or identical infrastructure components, in addition to being fully configured / operational in 15 minutes or less.
3) Any bespoke tools used to promote and manage deployments **MUST** be used for local operations in addition to our continuous deployment systems.

This was an experiment at the core, while I was relatively confident we could meet these goals, I wasn’t sure how long it was going to take. Using Kubernetes was the obvious choice since our build tooling, applications, and architecture were already cloud-native compatible. Based on my experience building Kubernetes workshops and demos, I had confidence that I could meet the other goals with some help from the rest of the development team.

### The Experiment

Lifting and shifting applications aren’t nearly as easy some vendors might make it out to seem, but we had a few cards up our sleeves. We were already utilizing consistent patterns and tools across all of our applications, all of which fit well into the cloud-native ecosystem. I’ll list below for reference:

> * [Maven](https://maven.apache.org) | [Fabric8](https://github.com/fabric8io/docker-maven-plugin) -- Consistent build patterns across all our apps, even non-Java apps, version management, testing, etc.
> * [Gitlab](https://about.gitlab.com/stages-devops-lifecycle/) | [GitlabCI](https://about.gitlab.com/stages-devops-lifecycle/continuous-integration/) -- All of our applications were designed to be continuously built, with our images tagged, pushed into a docker image registry, and deployed into a pre-production environment.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org) | [Fabric8](https://github.com/fabric8io/docker-maven-plugin) — Consistent build patterns across all our apps, even non-Java apps, version management, testing, etc.
* [Gitlab](https://about.gitlab.com/stages-devops-lifecycle/) | [GitlabCI](https://about.gitlab.com/stages-devops-lifecycle/continuous-integration/) — All of our applications were designed to be continuously built, with our images tagged, pushed into a docker image registry, and deployed into a pre-production environment.
```

The next phase was determining the tools which we were going to use to manage the lifecycle of our application, including deploying the platform itself, our services, and how we were going to monitor it. We settled on the following tools:

* [Helm](https://helm.sh/) - Pre-existing production-ready manifests for our back-end services, and I had experience already building charts for workshops and tutorials. Mature community and widely adopted, this enabled us to create a single universal chart for all our distributed applications and utilize community charts for our scalable backend components.
* [eksctl](https://eksctl.io/) - While not as flexible as kops, or writing your own cloud formation (yikes), this tool worked on the first pass and met our initial requirements for setting up our production cluster automatically.

> * [kind](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind) - Well suited for local development and testing, this was a lightweight solution to creating disposable K8s environments required for local development without the dependency on large and slow VMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) - Well suited for local development and testing, this was a lightweight solution to creating disposable K8s environments required for local development without the dependency on large and slow VMs.
```
?

> * [Kontena Lens](https://github.com/lensapp/lens) - A visualization tool for Kubernetes, this app was perfectly suited to handle managing our services and back-end components running in K8s locally and in the cloud. This replaced one of the bespoke tools we had built internally for Swarm which was handling most of the functions available in Lens, such as quick access to status, exec, log, and configuration details of the workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Kontena Lens](https://k8slens.dev/) - A visualization tool for Kubernetes, this app was perfectly suited to handle managing our services and back-end components running in K8s locally and in the cloud. This replaced one of the bespoke tools we had built internally for Swarm which was handling most of the functions available in Lens, such as quick access to status, exec, log, and configuration details of the workloads.
```

### Step 1: Developers Go First

#### Developers. Developers. Developers.

It was important that the developers have an environment as close to what’s going to run in production as possible. Up until this point, they had been relying on `fabric8-maven-plugin` to boot up applications on their local docker network - which wasn’t even close to how we were running the same applications in the cloud. I knew that for this to work there had to be a fast local environment that was as close as possible to deploying to the new platform. The tooling I eventually built here would be used to stand up not only to local environments but our cloud stack as well.

Running your own Kubernetes cluster on your laptop isn’t exactly lightweight. We needed a solution that didn’t involve a VM or additional cloud resources. I also needed something that was lightweight, easily torn down and reconfigured, and worked on WSL2 (my environment) and Linux (the other Devs + our CI). 

> Hello there, kind. [Kubernetes-IN-Docker](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind), who'da thunk it? This project, originally built to handle continuous integration testing for Kubernetes, was well suited to our requirements. I wanted our developers to go from scratch to a fully working application stack of over 20 services and accompanying infrastructure components in less than 15 minutes. In addition, deploying a new build needed to take seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hello there, kind. [Kubernetes-IN-Docker](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/), who'da thunk it? This project, originally built to handle continuous integration testing for Kubernetes, was well suited to our requirements. I wanted our developers to go from scratch to a fully working application stack of over 20 services and accompanying infrastructure components in less than 15 minutes. In addition, deploying a new build needed to take seconds.
```

The developers also built a command `promote` that promotes applications from our staging environment through a GitLab pipeline (our CI is the only agent capable of deploying to our cluster). At this point, we were ready to stand up our service in the cloud running on a managed Kubernetes environment. We chose Amazon EKS as we were already running in that provider and had just purchased several thousand dollars worth of reserved instances. We also store all of our customers’ music securely in S3 and depend on their other data services, such as Redshift, and RDS, already. Vendor lock-in is real, y’all.

The `cmdr` tool has been [released](https://github.com/notsureifkevin/cmdr) for anyone to use on their own projects, as I’ll be using it for workshops and demos in the future.

### Step 2: The Migration

> Single Music processes roughly 1.5 million transactions every day. Having an extended or failed migration would be a disaster. In addition to building the environment developers could work in, we had to ensure that we were using compatible infrastructure components as well -- which included upgrading from [Traefik 1.7 to 2.2](https://docs.traefik.io/migration/v1-to-v2/), leveraging their [new CRDs](https://docs.traefik.io/v2.0/reference/dynamic-configuration/kubernetes-crd/), and utilizing the Bitnami [Redis](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/redis) and [RabbitMQ](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/rabbitmq) charts so our caching and messaging systems are in a position to be scalable and highly available in the not-so-distant future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Single Music processes roughly 1.5 million transactions every day. Having an extended or failed migration would be a disaster. In addition to building the environment developers could work in, we had to ensure that we were using compatible infrastructure components as well — which included upgrading from [Traefik 1.7 to 2.2](https://docs.traefik.io/migration/v1-to-v2/), leveraging their [new CRDs](https://docs.traefik.io/v2.0/reference/dynamic-configuration/kubernetes-crd/), and utilizing the Bitnami [Redis](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/redis) and [RabbitMQ](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/rabbitmq) charts so our caching and messaging systems are in a position to be scalable and highly available in the not-so-distant future.
```
(just fixing the em dash)
or
```suggestion
Single Music processes roughly 1.5 million transactions every day. Having an extended or failed migration would be a disaster. In addition to building the environment developers could work in, we had to ensure that we were using compatible infrastructure components as well — which included upgrading from [Traefik 1.7 to 2.2](https://docs.traefik.io/migration/v1-to-v2/), leveraging their [new CustomResourceDefinitions](https://docs.traefik.io/v2.0/reference/dynamic-configuration/kubernetes-crd/), and utilizing the Bitnami [Redis](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/redis) and [RabbitMQ](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/rabbitmq) charts so our caching and messaging systems are in a position to be scalable and highly available in the not-so-distant future.
```

(in case the reader doesn't know CRD as an abbreviation)

1) Traefik 1.7 support is scheduled to [end in 2021](https://github.com/containous/traefik/issues/5475#issuecomment-594883941).
2) Traefik 2.x introduced [modern concepts](https://docs.traefik.io/migration/v1-to-v2/#frontends-and-backends-are-dead-long-live-routers-middlewares-and-services) such as services, routers, and middleware, and the new helm chart leverages CRDs which helps reduce annotation clutter. In addition they are introducing [Traefik Plugins](https://containo.us/blog/introducing-traefik-pilot-a-first-look-at-our-new-saas-control-platform-for-traefik/) so users can now create their own middleware.
3) Containous is in the [process of moving](https://github.com/containous/traefik-helm-chart/pull/104) from “stable” as the officially supported chart, as are many other maintainers since [it’s being deprecated](https://github.com/helm/charts#deprecation-timeline) at the end of this year (2020).

We also recognized that the migration from 1.7 to 2.x required a new approach to configuration and since we were already migrating from Swarm to Kubernetes we should just go ahead and go with the latest version now.

> With the upgrade, we had the option of leveraging the existing Kubernetes Ingress pattern along with annotations or leverage CRDs -- for us, it made sense to use the CRD option as it reduced the clutter of adding and managing a slew of conditional annotations in our manifests.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
With the upgrade, we had the option of leveraging the existing Kubernetes Ingress pattern along with annotations or leverage CRDs — for us, it made sense to use the CRD option as it reduced the clutter of adding and managing a slew of conditional annotations in our manifests.
```

Our production workloads completely rely on managed services for our transactional datastores (RDS, Redshift, Kafka), but our non-production environments leverage the open-source equivalents. Moving to Kubernetes means having the option of leveraging operators for those technologies when we will eventually have to handle scaling out RabbitMQ and Redis in production, as well as giving our non-production environments operational equivalents for our transactional components. We had no trouble implementing the bitnami charts for RabbitMQ and Redis while using the official [confluent helm chart](https://github.com/confluentinc/cp-helm-charts) for Kafka.

We haven’t begun scaling out those components yet, but the pieces are in place for us to begin experimenting with them locally first, then eventually moving to high availability in production. Having both the commercial and community support for this capability didn’t exist without first moving to Kubernetes.

> #### Ready ... Set ... Oops ...

Reviewer: mini nit:
```suggestion
#### Ready … Set … Oops …
```

We had met our benchmarks for the development environment, had managed to stand up our platform in staging on EKS, and had successfully migrated our critical infrastructure components and worked out some kinks we’d found.

> One notable issue we’d discovered was when we capture user geo-location data the service began to fail when processing the transaction. Modern load balancers generate an `X-Forwarded-For` header that allows the destination service to authenticate the transaction by validating the subnets of the proxies in the request chain, but it’s also the source of truth for our reporting system. At first, we just simply assigned the cause of the missing header to the oddities of Metallb and the local environment, but we quickly discovered the issue was also present in the staging environment in EKS, in what was eventually going to be our production environment.

Reviewer: Possibly:
```suggestion
One notable issue we’d discovered was when we capture user geo-location data the service began to fail when processing the transaction. Load balancers commonly generate an `X-Forwarded-For` header that allows the destination service to authenticate the transaction by validating the subnets of the proxies in the request chain, but it’s also the source of truth for our reporting system. At first, we just simply assigned the cause of the missing header to the oddities of Metallb and the local environment, but we quickly discovered the issue was also present in the staging environment in EKS, in what was eventually going to be our production environment.
```

because `X-Forwarded-For:` isn't particularly modern - it's from the 1990s.

Without open source projects like Kubernetes, Helm, Traefik, and others, a project like this would require significantly more engineers and complexity at the scale we’re operating today. Many thanks to the team at Docker for building SwarmKit as the initial platform we launched on and gave us the support, experience, and practices which enabled us to move effortlessly to Kubernetes. We are grateful for the community and the tools that have given us the opportunity to build a service that can help both small indie artists and some of the largest acts in the world bring their creations to their audience directly.

## Get Involved

While there are a number of critical components in our stack, one of which has been there from the beginning is Traefik. Both a member of the CNCF and being Open Source there are a number of different ways to get involved with the Traefik community and learn more about the products and solutions built at Containous:

* Engage with other Traefik users and developers on our [Community Forums](https://community.containo.us/)
* Contribute to various Containous projects on our [Github Repository](https://github.com/containous)

> * Learn more about how Traefik empowers developers with flexible and easy to use [Kubernetes Ingress](https://containo.us/solutions/kubernetes-ingress/)

Reviewer: I'd link to the docs for Traefic Ingress:
```suggestion
* Learn more about how Traefik empowers developers with flexible and easy to use [Kubernetes Ingress](https://docs.traefik.io/providers/kubernetes-ingress/)
```
